# HMM-based-traffic-using-CDRs

With the wide spread of mobile phones, mobile big data is becoming an im- portant resource that provides a wealth of information with almost no cost. However, the data generally suffers from relatively high spatial granulari- ties, limiting the scope of its application.
In this thesis, we consider, for the first time, the utility of the mobile big data for map matching allowing for ’microscopic’ level traffic analysis. The state-of-the-art in map matching generally targets GPS data which provides far denser sampling and higher location resolution than the mobile data.
Our approach extends the typical hidden-Markov model used in map match- ing to accommodate for highly sparse location trajectories, exploit the large mobile data volume to learn the model parameters, and exploit the sparsity of the data to provide for real-time Viterbi processing. We study an actual, anonymized mobile trajectories data set of the city of Dakar, Senegal, span- ning a year, and generate a corresponding road-level traffic density, at an hourly granularity, for each mobile trajectory.
With the absence of ground truth data for the CDR, we reported for three main validation approaches; the first relies on oversampling individual ground- truth traces to emulate mobile traces, and use the GPS as ground truth. The second is to consider the aggregate mobile-based traffic flow and correlate against theoretical traffic flow models (e.g. Gravity and Equilibrium traffic flow models typically used in mobility analysis), and finally, instantaneous traffic volume using Google imaging.
We observed a relatively high correlation between the generated traffic in- tensities corresponding values obtained by individual and aggregated vali- dation approaches e.g. the closest literature work, gravity and equilibrium
models, indicating the utility of the approach as an alternative means for traffic analysis.
The thesis also considers the utility of mobile big data in traffic modeling and forecasting and develops a methodology tested by applying traffic pre- diction models to the traffic data of Dakar in Senegal, and identifying traf- fic seasonality patterns and significant social events. Results show a strong seasonality from day-to-day with outliers that can determine precisely ex- traordinary events at any portion of the country. Despite the variation in inferred traffic flows from road to another in daily time granularity; differ- ent modeling procedures produce low percentage error rates less than 20% but perform poorly with short-term modeling because of the complex sea- sonality.
